MEDICAL  REFERENCE  SERVICES  QUARTERLY 
2017,  VOL.  36,  NO.  1,  73–78 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02763869.2017.1259918 

EMERGING  TECHNOLOGIES  
Matthew  B. Hoy  and  Tara Brigham,  Column Editors                                            
Sci-Hub:  What  Librarians  Should  Know  and  Do  about 
Article  Piracy 
Matthew  B.  Hoy 

Mayo  Clinic  Health  System–Eau  Claire,  Eau  Claire,  Wisconsin,  USA  

KEYWORDS  
Academic  publishing; 
copyright;  piracy;  proxies; 
Sci-Hub  

ABSTRACT 
The high cost of journal articles has driven many researchers to 
turn  to  a  new  way  of  getting  access:  “pirate”  article  sites.  Sci- 
Hub, the largest and best known of these sites, currently offers 
instant  access  to  more  than  58  million  journal  articles.  Users 
attracted by the ease of use and breadth of the collection may 
not  realize  that  these  articles  are  often  obtained  using  stolen 
credentials  and  downloading  them  may  be  illegal.  This  article 
will  briefly  describe  Sci-Hub  and  how  it  works,  the  legal  and 
ethical  issues  it  raises,  and  the  problems  it  may  cause  for 
librarians. Librarians should be aware of Sci-Hub and the ways it 
may  change  their  patrons’  expectations.  They  should  also 
understand the risks Sci-Hub can pose to their patrons and their 
institutions. 

Introduction 
Prices for academic journals, particularly science journals, have been on the rise 
for  decades.1  For  researchers  without  access  to  an  institutional  library,  these 
cost increases have come to mean paying $30 or more for each journal article 
they  need  to  read.  When  they  need  to  read  hundreds  of  papers,  these  costs 
quickly become unmanageable. In 2011, a researcher in Kazakhstan created a 
website  call  Sci-Hub  that  allows  anyone  to  access  the  full  text  of  millions  of 
scientific articles for free. Librarians should be aware of Sci-Hub because many 
of their patrons are already using it, and it will undoubtedly affect their expec-
tations about what their library should provide and how quickly they should be 
able to get articles. Librarians should also understand the risks that Sci-Hub can 
pose to their patrons, their institutions, and themselves. 

What  is  SCI-HUB? 
The tagline on the Sci-Hub website reads “to remove all barriers in the way of 
science,” and the site’s “about” section describes it as “the first pirate website 

CONTACT  Matthew  B.  Hoy,  MLIS,  AHIP 
System–Eau  Claire,  1221  Whipple  Street,  Eau  Claire,  WI  54701,  USA. 
Comments and suggestions should be sent to the Column Editors: Matthew B. Hoy (hoy.matt@mayo.edu) and Tara 
Brigham  (Brigham.Tara@mayo.edu).  
Published  with  license  by  Taylor  &  Francis.  ©  Matthew  B.  Hoy 

Medical  Library,  Mayo  Clinic  Health  

hoy.matt@mayo.edu 

